By 9 months, your baby is much more mobile and likes to explore. Babies at this age are crawling and can raise themselves to stand, so safety in the home becomes an important issue as your baby's curiosity (and mobility) grows. Your baby now responds to their name, loves to cuddle with family members and may show shyness or fear of strangers. Games like peek-a-boo and pat-a-cake are sure to be a big hit with your 9-month-old.



Test your knowledge

False!
Babies love baby talk. Babies can't understand language yet, but they do hear the exaggerated tones that adults use when they speak to them in baby talk.
To learn more, watch our
.

Social and emotional milestones at 9 months
Some of the ways you’ll see your little one learning to connect with the people around them at 9 months:
Starting to cling onto adults they're familiar with
Might be afraid of strangers
Has favourite toys that they reach for often
Tips for parents
Follow your baby’s signals by letting them take the lead during playtime.

Language and communication milestones at 9 months
How your baby is expressing their needs:
Pointing at things with their fingers
Understands the word "no" and makes lots of different sounds
Starts to copy movements they see and sounds they hear
Tips for parents
Because your baby loves to point, read some board books with pictures. They’ll be able to show you what they're interested in.
Cut out pictures from magazines and create your own story about the objects or people in the picture.
Identify the objects your baby notices in their everyday environment or in the house and name them. This will help with their linguistic and communication development.

Brain development milestones at 9 months
How your child’s brain is growing:
Likes to play peek-a-boo and look for things you hide
Tracks objects as they fall
Moves things from one hand to the other, and likes to put objects in their mouth
Picks up small objects with their thumb and index finger
Tips for parents
Support and encourage your baby during playtime.
Help them develop their fine-motor skills by giving them small objects to pick up while under your supervision.

Movement and physical development milestones at 9 months
How they’ll move through their environment:
Can get into a sitting position and sit without support
Pulls up (using furniture for support) to stand
Starting to crawl
Tips for parents
Place your baby close to furniture so they can try to raise themselves up.

Food and nutrition milestones at 9 months
What mealtimes look like at 9 months:
Enjoys teethers
Beginning to eat thicker pureed foods and stays full for a longer period of time after eating
Reacts strongly to new smells and tastes
Tips for parents
Try giving your little one half a cup of food three to four times a day, plus a healthy snack. For more ideas, read our article on
.

Things to look out for
While all babies develop differently, you should speak to your paediatrician if your 9-month-old:
Can’t sit without assistance
Doesn’t babble
Won’t respond to their own name
Doesn’t put weight on their legs
Doesn’t play any games involving back-and-forth play
Doesn’t recognize adults they know
Doesn’t look where you point
Can’t transfer toys between their hands



Explore age groups
|
|
|
|
|
|