Your 18-month-old toddler is now walking and using basic words. At this age, children love to play and explore. They begin to show some independence and may play pretend and point at objects they want. They also begin to understand what things in the house are used for, such as a cup or spoon. Your toddler may have temper tantrums around this age, when they grow frustrated trying to communicate how they feel.



Test your knowledge

True!
Exposing your child to music supports many key areas of development.
To learn more, watch our
.

Social and emotional milestones at 18 months
Some of the ways you’ll see your little one learning to connect with the people around them at 18 months:
May be afraid of strangers but will show affection to familiar people
Points to show interest in something
Likes to play by handing things to people or playing simple pretend
May have some tantrums
Might cling to caregivers in new situations or explore alone but with a parent close by
Tips for parents
Create joint play opportunities with your toddler.
Praise your toddler when they show signs of empathy by sharing their toy, taking care of toys or giving a caring gesture to others. All of these things help support social and emotional development.

Language and communication milestones at 18 months
How your toddler is expressing their needs:
Shakes their head “no”
Can say several single words
Points to show what they want
Tips for parents
Pay attention to what your toddler is pointing to and make it a language development opportunity by naming the object.

Brain development milestones at 18 months
How your child’s brain is growing:
They recognize everyday objects
Points to get attention
Pretends to feed their favourite stuffed animals
Can point to a body part
Can follow one-step commands without gestures
Tips for parents
Provide your toddler with toys for pretend play.

Movement and physical development milestones at 18 months
How they’ll move through their environment:
Can walk alone
Can help undress themselves
Uses utensils when feeding
May start walking up stairs
Pulls toys while walking
Tips for parents
Encourage your child to participate in everyday routines like getting dressed.

Food and nutrition milestones at 18 months
What mealtimes look like at 18 months:
Tries more chopped solid foods like chicken or squash
Can hold and drink from a cup
Tips for parents
Give them plenty of time to eat. They will be able to eat most of the same foods as adults and more easily use utensils.

Things to look out for
While all children develop differently, you should speak to your paediatrician if your 18-month-old:
Can't walk
Doesn’t point
Doesn’t try to copy others
Isn’t learning new words
Can’t say at least six words
Doesn’t notice when a parent leaves or returns
Loses skills they once had



Explore age groups
|
|
|
|
|
|